🚀 Release v5.0.0 (#1404)
useblocks/sphinx-needs: docs/changelog.rst

Changelog
=========

5.0.0
-----

:Released: 18.02.2025
:Full Changelog: `v4.1.0...v5.0.0 <https://github.com/useblocks/sphinx-needs/compare/4.2.0...8ae2918501576a72a51b2407c7c2dc2cf9415d33>`__

This release includes a number of changes,
to bring more clarity to the needs data structure and post-processing steps.
In most cases it should not be breaking,
but may be in some corner cases.

- ✨ Add ``c.this_doc()`` check for ``needextend`` filters :pr:`1393`

  This allows for filtering of needs only in the same document as the
  ``needextend`` itself, e.g.

  .. code-block:: rst

    .. needextend:: c.this_doc() and status is None
       :status: open

- ♻️ Make ``needextend`` argument declarative :pr:`1391`

  The argument for ``needextend`` can refer to either a single need ID or
  filter function.
  Currently, the format cannot be known until all needs have been
  processed, and it is resolved during post-processing.
  This is problematic for (a) user readability, (b) improving processing
  performance and issue feedback

>   This PR the argument processing  now slightly modified to allow for two

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This PR slightly modifies the argument processing to allow for two
```
